1ST - RPC
Remote Procedure Call is a software communication protocol that one program can use to request a service from a program located in another computer on a network without having to understand the network's details.
Application - Financial Transaction.
Types - 1. Callback RPC
This type of RPC enables a P2P paradigm between participating processes. It helps a process to be both client and server services. Callback RPC has the following functions, such as:
Remotely processed interactive application problems.
Offers server with clients handle.
Callback makes the client process wait.
2. Broadcast RPC -
Broadcast RPC is a client's request broadcast on the network, processed by all servers with the method for processing that request. Broadcast RPC has the following functions, such as:
Allows you to specify that the client's request message has to be broadcast.
You can declare broadcast ports.
3. Batch-mode RPC -
Batch-mode RPC helps to queue, separate RPC requests, in a transmission buffer, on the client-side, and then send them on a network in one batch to the server. Batch-mode RPC has the following functions, such as:
It minimizes the overhead involved in sending a request by sending them over the network in one batch to the server.
This type of RPC protocol is only efficient for an application that needs lower call rates.

2ND - RMI
rmi is an api where an object can invoke method of other object which is located on different address space on same system or on different system
Rmi is purely Java based. Rmi ka application financial transactions hi hai same.
The RMI provides remote communication between the applications using two objects stub and skeleton.
stub - The stub is an object, acts as a gateway for the client side. All the outgoing requests are routed through it. It resides at the client side and represents the remote object.
skeleton - The skeleton is an object, acts as a gateway for the server side object. All the incoming requests are routed through it.
Application - Financial transaction.

3rd - Hadoop
Mapreduce framework under Hadoop which is used for processing big data efficiently
two pahses - map and reduce
map breaks the data into smaller chunks anf each chunk is processed independently and simultaneously
each chunk is assigned with a key
and passed to reduce phase
reduce phase shuffles all key value pairs and and aggregates based on same key
the output of reduce pahse is final result of overall computation.
Types - HDFS, YARN, map reduce.
Application - Recommendation system and log analysis.

4th - Fuzzy set
Fuzzy Set is a Set where every key is associated
with value, which is between 0 to 1 based on the certainty. This value is often called as degree of membership.
1. Union:
Definition: The union of two fuzzy sets A and B is another fuzzy set C, where the membership degree of an element in C is the maximum of its membership degrees in 
A and B.
Symbol: 
C=A∪B
Mathematical Expression: 
𝜇𝐶(𝑥)=max(𝜇𝐴(𝑥),𝜇𝐵(𝑥))
2. Intersection:
Definition: The intersection of two fuzzy sets A and B is another fuzzy set C, where the membership degree of an element in C is the minimum of its membership degrees in A and B.
Symbol: 𝐶=𝐴∩𝐵
Mathematical Expression: (x)=min(μA(x),μB(x))
3. Complement:
Definition: The complement of a fuzzy set A is another fuzzy set B, where the membership degree of an element in B is 1 minus its membership degree in A.
Symbol: B=A′or B=¬A
Mathematical Expression: μB(x)=1−μA(x)
4. Difference:
Definition: The difference between two fuzzy sets A and B is another fuzzy set C, where the membership degree of an element in C is the minimum of its membership degree in A and the complement of its membership degree in B.
Symbol: C=A−B
Mathematical Expression: (x)=min(μA(x),1−μB(x))
5. Cartesian Product:
Definition: The Cartesian product of two fuzzy sets A and B is a fuzzy relation R, where the membership degree of an ordered pair (x,y) in R is the minimum of the membership degrees of 
x in A and y in B.
Symbol:R=A×B
Mathematical Expression:μR((x,y))=min(μA(x),μB(y))

5TH - GENETIC (MIL SPRAY)
Genetic algorithm is based on process of natural selection and mutation. 
It considers the individual with best survival of fittest values
Starts by-
Initialisation - Gather a subset of individual candidates or individual solution against an optimisation search problem
Evaluation - each individual is assigned with an fitness score
Selection - bàsed on the fitness value best surviving candidates are selected
Crossover - genetic material of parent individual are mixed to produce an off spring
Mutation - used to introduce diversity in data set for best optimal approach
Replacement and termination - the new off spring with low fitness value is replaced from more optimisation and past generated off spring dataset
And is terminated upon reaching the best optimal solution
Application - Travelling salesman problem and travel routing.

6TH - CLONAL
The Clonal Selection Algorithm (CSA) is a biologically inspired optimization algorithm based on the principles of the immune system's clonal selection process.
The CSA mimics the process by which the immune system generates a large number of antibodies to combat pathogens, with stronger antibodies being produced in higher quantities.
steps:
1. intialisation:
initialize the population of antibodies randomly or using heuristic approach
2. Affinity calculation:
calculating the affinity score for each antibody
3. clonal selection:
the antibodies with higher affinity scores are selected for cloning
4. cloning:
multiple copies of antibodies are generated
5. mutation:
diversity in the population is generated
6. selection: based on their affinity antibodies are selected for creating next generation
7. termination:
algorithm is terminated when maximum no. of iterations are performed or population reaches towards optimal solution
Aplication - pattern recognition